---
title: False Prophet
layout: lesson
---


**False Prophet 3**

The False Prophet  
The Mark of the Beast

THE FALSE PROPHET

Daniel 11:36ff. provide us with a picture of the False Prophet. “The
king (of the Jewish state, Israel, also called the Anti-Christ; called
the beast in Rev. 13:11-18, and the false prophet in Rev. 16:13; 19:20;
and 20:10) will do as he pleases (this indicates his absolute power);
and he will exalt and magnify himself above every god (religious system
of the Tribulation) and will say (eloquently) unheard-of things
(blasphemies) against the God of gods (the Lord Jesus Christ). He will
be successful (in his own eyes) until the time of wrath (the
Tribulation) is completed, for what has been determined must take place
(this is the Permissive Will of Christ allowing certain things to take
place - remember, Jesus Christ controls history!).”

Daniel 11:37 says, “He will show no regard for the God (gods) (the Lord
Jesus Christ; this is a statement of ignorance and lack of desire) of
his fathers (Abraham, Isaac and Jacob) nor have normal sexual desires
toward women (either a statement of homosexuality or complete
disinterest due to self-centeredness, or perhaps both), and will not
recognize any god (he is an atheist): but will exalt himself above them
all (total arrogance, he believes that he is a god himself and that he
should be worshipped).”

Daniel 11:38 “Instead of them, he will honor a god of fortresses
(literally, ‘god of the fortified cities;’ this is a reference to the
King of the West, the dictator of the Revived Roman Empire); a god
unknown to his fathers he will honor (make a pact with) with gold and
silver, with precious stones and costly gifts.” [1]

Summary: The dictator of Israel, also called the false prophet and the
beast out of the land, takes a look around at the world situation near
the middle of the Tribulation; he determines that he needs an ally so
that he might preserve his power base against the warlike kings of the
north, south and east and west. He must, then, choose one to become
allies with. And his decision is simplified by the fact that the kings
of the north and the kings of the south have already reached an accord.
Thus he chooses the king of the west, the dictator of the Revived Roman
Empire (western Europe); the cost, though, is expensive. Not only must
he pay tribute, but he and his nation must accept and worship the
religious system of the king of the West. And this religious system is
the worship of the king of the West as god. Thus, part of the deal is
that the “abomination of desolation,” the statue of the king of the
west, must be erected in the Jewish Temple, inside the Holy of Holies.
However, since the dictator of Israel is an unbeliever this is no
problem.

Daniel 11:39 says, “He (the dictator of Israel) will build mighty
fortifications with the help of a foreign god (king of the west) and
will greatly enrich those who acknowledge him. He will make them rulers
over many peoples (Jews) and will distribute the land (portions of
Israel) at a price (in effect, he sells power to rule over portions of
Israel to the highest bidders; graft and corruption).” And Revelation
chapter 17 expands on Daniel 11:39, providing more details.

Daniel 11:40 says, “At the time of the end (the Tribulation, the end of
the Age of Israel), the king of the South will engage him (the dictator
of Israel) in battle, and the king of the North will storm out against
him with chariots and cavalry and a great fleet of ships. He (the king
of the North) will invade many countries and sweep through them like a
flood.” [2]

A Note of Interest Concerning the False Prophet

By comparing the following verses, Genesis 49:16,17 and Deuteronomy
33:22, there appears to be some foundation for stating that the False
Prophet, the dictator of Israel during the Tribulation, is from the
tribe of Dan.

In the Greek, Dan is Da,vvn and nD in the Hebrew; the term means
“judge.” Dan was the fifth of Jacob’s sons, the first child born to
Jacob by his wife Bilhah, the maid of Rachel.

In Genesis 49:16,17 we have Jacob’s blessing on Dan. “Dan will provide
justice for his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Dan will be a
serpent by the roadside, a viper along the path, that bites the horse’s
heels so that its rider tumbles backward.”

And Deuteronomy 33:22 relates the words of Moses concerning Dan, “About
Dan he said: ‘Dan is a lion’s cub, springing out of Bashan.’” And Bashan
was an area of land from Gilead to Hermon, and included many fortified
cities, according to Deuteronomy 3:4,5 and I Kings 3:14. And the phrase
“a lion’s cub” may refer to the False Prophet’s claim to be the Messiah.
[3]

THE MARK OF THE BEAST

Revelation 13:18 is the verse under scrutiny. “This calls for wisdom. If
anyone has insight, let him calculate the number of the beast (the false
prophet of Israel), for it is man’s number. His number is 666.”

Let’s explore the many options available in this verse based on
numerology. The verse hints that a calculation is possible, but
extremely difficult. Many commentators utilize what is called gematria,
which is a cabalistic (mystical/philosophical interpretation of the
scripture by certain Rabbis) method of interpretation of the Hebrew
scriptures based upon the numerical value of the letters in the words.
In this method, a letter is substituted for a related number. This,
however, would be more accurately enumeration, not computation.

Additionally, the abundance of names that this method has produced
boggles the imagination. And it should be noted that gematria is not
divinely inspired, and thus the massive discrepancies are to be
expected.

It is generally recognized that three is the number of Deity; that seven
is the number of perfection, and that six is the number of mankind. This
is because man was created on the sixth day. Commentators note that
Goliath was six cubits in height, his spear’s head weighed six shekels
and he has six pieces of armor. Furthermore, Nebuchadnezzar’s dream
Image was 60 cubits in height, and six cubits wide and 6 musical
instruments are used in its worship.

Too, it has been noted by other commentators that the number 666 is the
sum of the aggregate numbers of the square root of six. The square of 6
is 36 and 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 +5 + each successive number up to and including
36, add up to 666.

And the cryptic symbol of the Pagan mystery cults was SSS or 666; and
some assert that this is the “connection number” in Spiritism, Theosophy
and the New Age cults. And the Greeks wrote the number 666 as cxj, the c
representing 600, the x representing 60, and j denoting 6. The latter j
is called sti’,gma, stigma [4], and carries pejorative connotations.

It would appear, then, that the meaning of the number is man x 3 or man,
man, man. This probably connotes the idea that this “beast-dictator”
combines all that is evil in man; and this beast believes only in man
and man’s power, and in the worship of man. This would deny God, the
saving work of Christ and any divine power. And this anthropocentric
(man-centered) system of all that is vile, abnormal, and contemptible,
would explain his designation as “the beast.”

Thus the “mark of the beast” on individuals during the Tribulation means
that they are members of the false religion that worships the
“abomination of desolation” in the Holy of Holies. The king of the West
is the “abomination;” they worship his statue in the Temple.

And his prophet is the dictator of Israel, and he is “false.” He claims
he is the Messiah, and that the King of the West is God the Father. [5]

And the “mark of the beast” could be any type of brand, bar-coding,
fingerprinting, pupil-coding, etc., method that presently exists, or
that might still be invented. It could be as simple as a credit card
with a number on it.

Notes:

[1] Thieme, Robert. Revelation; this interpretation of passages from
Daniel is attributed to the scholarship of Robert Thieme, and
secondarily, to E.W. Bullinger.

[2] Ibid.

[3] An extrapolation from the scholarship of Robert Thieme.

[4] A stigma was a brand or cicatrix on soldiers and slaves in the
ancient world. This stigma was held to be protective in the sense that
it was usually the symbol of the god whom they served; Leviticus 19:28;
21:5; Deuteronomy 14:1; III Macc. 2:29. Also, see Isaiah 49:16, Ezekiel
9:4, Exodus 13:9,16, Revelation 14:1: 7:2; 9:4.

[5] This exposition on the number of ‘666’ is surmised from the works of
Clarence Larkin, E.W. Bullinger, and Robert Thieme.

