---
title: Much More
layout: lesson
---


**The Much More Care of God 2**

**The Much More Care of God**

There is a great deal more to salvation than eternal life. There is a
depth of experience here on earth that is unbelievable to anyone who
does not live through it. It is the much more provision concept of
personal happiness and prosperity during life on earth for the believer
who is occupied with the Lord Jesus Christ.

**Rom. 5:6-10,** “For while we were still helpless, at the right time
Christ died for the ungodly.”

“For one will hardly die for a righteous man; though perhaps for the
good man someone would dare even to die.”

“But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were yet
sinners, Christ died for us.”

“Much more then, having now been justified by His blood, we shall be
saved from the wrath of God through Him.”

“For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the
death of His Son, much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved
by His life.”

**Matt. 6:25-34,**“For this reason I say to you, do not be anxious for
your life, as to what you shall eat, or what you shall drink; nor for
your body, as to what you shall put on. Is not life more than food, and
the body than clothing?”

“Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, neither do they
reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them.
Are you not worth much more than they?”

“And which of you by being anxious can add a single cubit to his life’s
span?”

“And why are you anxious about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the
field grow; they do not toil nor do they spin,”

“yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory did not clothe
himself like one of these.”

“But if God so arrays the grass of the field, which is alive today and
tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will He not much more do so for
you, O men of little faith?”

“Do not be anxious then, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we
drink?’ or ‘With what shall we clothe ourselves?’”

“For all these things the Gentiles eagerly seek; for your heavenly
Father knows that you need all these things.”

“But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness; and all these things
shall be added to you.”

“Therefore do not be anxious for tomorrow; for tomorrow will care for
itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.”

We are objects of God’s love.

**Eph. 2:4**, “But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love
wherewith He loved us….”

**Eph. 5:2**, “And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us, and has
given Himself for us…”

**1 John 4:10**, “Herein is love, not that we loved God but that he
loved us…”

We are objects of His grace.

**Eph. 2:8,9**, “By grace you are saved…”

**1 Peter 1:5**, “Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto
salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.”

**Titus 2:11, 12**, “For the grace of God that brings salvation to all
men has appeared, teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly
lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present
world,”

We are objects of His power.

**Phil. 2:13, “**For it is God which works in you both to will and to do
of His good pleasure.”

We are objects of His faithfulness.

**Phil. 1:6,** “Being confident of this very thing, that he which has
begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ.”

We are objects of His peace.

**John 14:27, “**Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not
as the world gives peace, give I unto you. Let not your heart be
troubled, neither let it be afraid.”

We are objects of His consolation.

**2 Thess. 2:16,17,** “Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even
our Father, which has loved us, and has given us everlasting consolation
and good hope through grace, comfort your hearts, and establish you in
every good word and work.”

We are objects of Christ’s intercession.

**Heb. 7:25,** “Wherefore He is able also to save them to the uttermost
that come unto God by Him, seeing He ever lives to make intercession for
them.”

